So far we've discussed colors,
we've seen numbers and lengths and angles.
But we haven't discussed anything about
strings in relation to custom properties.
And there are some caveats there.
So let's take a look at this example,
where we're using
an emoji custom property,
to specify an emoji that we want to add,
before and after our heading text.
So we use it like this, and in our CSS,
we've placed content var emoji.
And we also want to transform
the emoji on the after pseudo element,
so that we flip it.
However it's not working,
no emoji is showing up.
Can you see what the problem is?
It's missing quotes.
Once we add the code
that works just fine and
we need to specify a different
display mode here to actually
be able to apply transforms and
that's about it.
It wraps right now but,
that's what it was.
So if your custom property contains
a string don't forget the quotes.
This seems like the most elementary
thing ever, but you would be,
amazed at how many times
people forget the quotes.
So this is the viewport demo
that we've seen previously,
and let's fix it so that it works again.
Remember, we were trying some experiments.
All right, this works now.
And what we wanted to do here is we wanted
to actually output the value of p so
that instead of saying your viewport
it says 50% of your viewport.
So let's try to do that,
we're gonna use the before Pseudo element,
and we're gonna use this and
then concatenate it.
Actually, let's try a static value first.
So if we hard code the 50%, it works fine.
And even if the 50 is in a different,
Is in a different string,
cuz the content property
accepts a series of strings.
But when we try to replace this
with our custom property, it fails,
the entire thing disappears, the entire
content property, nothing shows up.
And what is the problem here?
>> In quotes?
>> Yep what we've done here is basically
equivalent to doing this which
doesn't work.
And again the number of times
I've seen people try to output
numbers through the content property.
In JavaScript that works, you can
concatenate strings with numbers and
it works in CSS it doesn't work.
So how can we actually output this
number is it possible at all?
It is but we have to use something that
is a bit of a hack so remember counter?
There is a property called counter
reset that allows us to set a counter,
let's call it p to a number
let's say 40 here.
We're gonna hard code it first
to make sure everything works.
And now, whatever we put here,
we can actually output
through the content property.
So we can just put our variable here and
now it works and
we can change this, And
it works just fine.
It's a bit of a hack to use counters for
this, but
right now, it's the only way we have.
There are a lot of discussions in the CSS
working group about adding ways to
convert between different data types, but
right now none of these have
been Spector implemented.
So content only accepts strings,
it doesn't actually do any typecasting,
but you can't convert numbers to
strings through counter reset.
So the previous example was
a little bit of contrived but
there are actually useful
applications of this.
So here we have our familiar bar chart,
and
we are using the content property
to output 5% on every bar.
We're also putting the letters just for
debugging, but I can remove those.
And, what we want to do here is we want to
output the actual percentage of each bar.
So let's look at the values of this
p property, their percentages and
as you might guess,
Doing this doesn't work.
However, If we try to
do the counter trick,
That also doesn't work.
Unfortunately, it's the same problem as
what we faced earlier with length that we
wanted to convert to numbers.
And, Even though it's ideal to
be able to expose a nice API and
hide all the ugliness in
places where it can't be seen,
in this case, we need to
actually change our styling API.
And we need to make these p variables
accept numbers not percentages,
because with numbers, we can do anything,
we can convert them to anything.
But with percentages,
we can only have percentages.
So let's do that, well,
I'm gonna go through here,
replace all these with numbers,
and obviously we'll need
to modify our code that sets the height
to convert the numbers to percentages.
And notice that now, this already works,
it's already outputting the percentage
that I have, I only need to concatenate
it with an actual percentage sign.
Do you see any problems here?
>> Except for that second the last bar.
>> Yeah, and why do you think that is?
>> Floats?
>> Exactly, so let's look at
the documentation for counter reset.
If we look at the syntax, the syntax
is actually integer, not number.
Counter reset becomes invalid
if we try to use a number there.
So then we just get a counter that is,
whatever it would have been if we
hadn't used counter reset at all, so 0.
So unfortunately, this counter
trick only works with integers.
And I suppose at this point we could
throw our hands up in the air and say,
only use this if you have integers.
What if we could convert
the number we have to an integer?
Could we do that?
So there is a way to do it,
It's a little bit roundabout,
but we can register a property.
We could call it integer and
to make it reusable,
whose syntax is integer.
And let's make its
initial value be 0 oops,
and inherits would be,
I guess through and then,
If we set this integer to p,
And not just p but
also p in a calculation.
Let's say plus 0, and then we use this
integer here, that actually works.
And I think we can even skip the plus0,
yeah,
as long as it's inside the calc it works.
It just converts whatever we have
here to an integer because we're
setting a custom property that's
registered as an integer.
Obviously, this will only work if
a property is supported, if that property
is not supported, the rest would work,
we would just get zero for that bar.
This trick was invented by Anna Tudor,
and she even had formulas to
control how this rounding happens.
By default, the browser just rounds in
this case, you could also add point five
or subtract point five to make it floor or
seal depending on what you want.
So you can convert the number
to an integer by assigning it
to a property that is registered
as an integer inside calc.
And this is how you could control
how the rounding happens and yes,
this is a hack but
as we know sometimes we have to use hacks.
And as long as hacks are encapsulated
inside code that does not need
to be changed by others using our
component styling our component.
It can sometimes be acceptable,
make sure to document it well so
that other developers know what you're
doing if they're reading your code.
It's good to know what the hacks are,
even if we end up not using them, so
this is how you could do that.